# Kraylites Masterdoc
This document is intended to establish lore and worldbuilding elements for the Kraylites, a faction I am currently working on creating for the game Endless Sky.
## Intro
The Kraylites are an enigmatic species that seemingly redefine the definition of "life". They are silicon-based lifeforms, incorporating complex and poorly-understood processes into their makeup that, by definition, would be inaccurately referred to as their "biology." Even with this lack of understanding, there is still a vast amount of information relating to their culture and species.
Kraylites hail from their homeworld of Krayl, a highly volcanic world close to it's host star, rich in minerals and teeming with energy that seemingly catalyzed their formation. Their homeworld possesses a relatively strong magnetic field for a planet of it's size, with a thin atmosphere composed primarily of nitrogen and sulfur, with trace amounts of fluorine, chlorine, and argon.
## Composition & Biology
Kraylites appear as pale, floating crystals of varying sizes upwards of 0.5 meters in diameter, with most averaging 1.5-2 meters in diameter. There is no identified upper limit to their growth, with the most ancient Kraylites in some cases exceeding diameters of 100 meters, though these particular beings are rarely seen. 
A Kraylite's age can be assumed in relation to not only it's size, but in it's form as well. As a Kraylite ages, it grows crystalline "branches" that increase in complexity. The youngest Kraylites appear as little more than a smooth icosahedron, while the oldest among them possess a highly complex, intricate latticework resembling a repeating fractal pattern.
Young Kraylites having a remarkably smooth exterior to the touch, while older Kraylites feel increasingly rough and jagged as a consequence of their growth.

Their primary form of locomotion and interaction with their environment is through self-generated magnetic fields, allowing them to float above the ground and extend bits of themselves in the form of magnetized nanoparticles to manipulate their environment. 

All Kraylites have two primary forms of energy generation to fuel their existence: smaller Kraylites rely on radiosynthesis for energy, while larger beings utilize a form of piezoelectric energy generation after growing to sufficient size to sustain it. 

Their primary method of nutrient intake is through "rooting," a process remarkably similar to tree growth in which the individual Kraylite plants itself within the ground, branching crystalline roots under the soil to leech nutrients from the surrounding area, and growing "branches" above ground to facilitate radiosynthesis. A Kraylite in the process of rooting undergoes a state of hibernation, often remaining rooted for years, in some cases growing for centuries. 
This causes the formation of Kraylite "groves" in which large amounts of Kraylites gather in a particularly nutrient-rich area to root for many years at a time, creating something akin to a crystal forest.
A Kraylite in the process of rooting is continually replicating it's crystal structure on a microscopic scale, mimicking cell growth in carbon-based organisms, and increasing the complexity of it's branching patterns. No two Kraylites have a perfectly identical branch pattern, and the pattern it generates seems to dictate the formation and manifestation of it's personality and behavior to some degree.

Kraylites primarily reproduce asexually, scattering pieces of themselves into the ground as "seeds" that root and sprout into new Kraylites after many years. They are also capable of a form of reproductive synthesis in which two or more Kraylites with sufficiently different patterns may join together to produce an entirely new pattern-seed taking features from all parents involved.
## Society
The closest Kraylites have to the concept of a family is known as a "strain" and bears little resemblance to the family units of other civilizations, bridging the concepts of a family and a race. Strains are based primarily on direct lineage, determined by similarities in pattern and overall form among Kraylites within their lineage, though it is not unheard of for Kraylites of different strains to seek membership in a new strain under certain circumstances. 
New strains are created by the synthesis of multiple Kraylites with distinct patterns. A strain may have as few as one and up to millions of members, averaging several hundred to several thousand individual Kraylites per strain.
Kraylites of a particular strain often root in the same ancestral rooting grounds and live in the surrounding area. Depending on the size of the strain, this may vary from small rooting groves surrounded by a simple village or town, to grand cities encircling a massive forest of rooted Kraylites.

This has had a profound influence on their political structure, causing the formation of many city-states. These city-states are often ruled as a benevolent dictatorship by the eldest unrooted Kraylite living among them, known as the Executor. An Executor may willingly pass their powers on to any other Kraylite within their strain by invoking a particular ceremony known as the Rite of Succession, often performed in the event of the current Executor planning to root in the near future. 
Otherwise, an unworthy Executor in power may only be removed by invoking the Rite of Assertion, in which the general populace of a strain awakens an older (and hopefully wiser) Kraylite from their root, who may then assert authority based of their claim of greater wisdom and experience.
In the event of an Executor's untimely death, the role of Executor falls to the next eldest among the strain.
Their primary form of large-scale government is the Assembly, in which all city-states of a particular planet are represented by their particular Executor, or a representative appointed by said Executor. Laws tend to vary little from city-state to city-state, but the Assembly has the power to handle cases of disagreements between states and facilitate many interactions between states. 

Each Assembly appoints a representative of it's own to the Krayl Grand Senate, mimicking the structure of it's constituent Assemblies, but the Grand Senate represents the Krayl civilization as a whole and may issue edicts empire-wide.
